Split ES|QL functions/operators/commands into separate pages for similar functions and make commands examples generated (#126279)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/query-languages/esql/functions-operators/search-functions.md

---

> navigation_title: "Full-text search functions"
> mapped_pages:
>   - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/functions-operators/search-functions.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
navigation_title: "Search functions"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/esql-functions-operators.html#esql-search-functions
```

---

> # {{esql}} Full-text search functions [esql-search-functions]
> 
> 
> Full text functions are used to search for text in fields. [Text analysis](docs-content://manage-data/data-store/text-analysis.md) is used to analyze the query before it is searched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# {{esql}} Search functions [esql-search-functions]

Use these functions for [full-text search](docs-content://solutions/search/full-text.md) and [semantic search](docs-content://solutions/search/semantic-search/semantic-search-semantic-text.md). 

Get started with {{esql}} for search use cases with our [hands-on tutorial](/docs-content://solutions/search/esql-search-tutorial.md).
```

Because we can do semantic search with match now, I guess we need to expand the umbrella beyond full-text ☂️
